Staking is the process your wallet uses to validate transactions and award you with coins. When your wallet is staking, it is checking transactions to make sure everyone who sends coins actually owned those coins and had the right to transfer them. If most of the wallets online agree that a transaction is valid, then it gets accepted by the network. As a reward for keeping the network secure, every minute one online wallet is chosen to receive a stake reward on the coins they own. Whoever has the most “raffle tickets” has the best chance of winning the award. The network weight can be understood as the number of coins available for this raffle. In practice the network weight is the sum of “weighted coins age” of all the coins which are staking at this moment across the entire network. Now your total weight is the number of tickets you own which allow you to participate in this raffle. It is calculated by summing up all the coins age of the coins which are staking in your wallet.
Since different participants own a different number of those tickets, the more of them you own, the quicker you can expect to be a winner, this is the expected time until your next reward. Of course the raffle is completely random so this number is merely an approximation, it could be much higher or much lower than the expected time for you to actually win. But in the long run, those differences average out and you would see that the expected time is pretty accurate averaged out over many stakes. Bigger weight = more chances to get your reward sooner.

----

Let’s now see how these things work in practice. 
The network weight is 30,408,157,568 and your weight is 2,176,782. 
The expected time will be:

30,408,157,568 / 2,176,782 = 13,969.31 Blocks Until Reward

Since one block is created approximately every 1 minute:
13,969 blocks * 1 min = 13,969 minutes (rounded to 1 hour by the wallet)
That's 232.8 hours until you'll  get your reward

Note, these are just random numbers plugged in for the example.
